---
title: Observations 2018-12-14
datestamp: "20181214"
date: 2018-12-24 15:50:00 -06:00
---

- The spring-ish weather in Chicago.
- Flying to San Francisco.
	- The college-age kid wearing an LED holiday sweater and rollerblades at the airport.
	- The TSA agents at checkpoint 7A seeming happy.
	- The flight attendants on Alaska 1201 seeming sad.
	- The googly eyes that someone had put on the Alaska Air Eskimo logo at the gate.
- Miriam Posner’s article in *Logic Magazine* about why global supply chains are so opaque (and why that shouldn’t excuse Fortune 500 companies from making them transparent).
- The searchable database of over 200,000 Japanese woodcut prints at ukiyo-e.org (via Kleon).
- Wondering how anti-discrimination laws work in the film casting industry.
- Scott Walker’s infuriating lack of integrity in limiting the Wisconsin governorship before his successor, Tony Evers, takes office.
	- On one hand, it’s within his mandate to impose those limits because he’s still the governor and his will is still, for a little longer, the expression of the people. But on the other, more reasonable hand, it’s a disrespect to voters and to the process because it subverts a more recent expression of their will.
- Getting excited about the Robinhood app’s checking and savings bank accounts with 3% interest until the president of the SIPC said that those accounts weren’t insured and that Robinhood never even called the SIPC. (They had been advertising the accounts with SIPC insurance.)
- Our super nice Lyft driver who was a former informant for the US military in Afghanistan and who moved from there because people knew he was an informant for the US military.
	- Him wistfully recollecting about his US soldier friend who had given him a pair of Air Jordans.
- Talking about Brazilian punk music and Caetano Veloso with another one of the sweetest Lyft drivers of all time, Silvio.
	- Him showing me a Voice Memos recording of him and his ex-girlfriend singing a song he wrote, which I pessimistically expected to be kinda bad but which was very beautiful.
