---
title: Observations 8-19-18
date: 2018-08-21 14:55:00 -05:00
---

- Flying home.
	- Waking up before sunrise, riding to the airport in foggy, predawn San Francisco.
	- The super low, gray clouds hanging over the bay.
	- The former Marines who happened to be next to each other in line, talking about their Pentagon office days.
	- The rumbling of the airport floor.
- These *Everyone Loves You When You’re Dead* stories:
	- Pharrell talking about “The Flower Called Nowhere” by Stereolab being the best song to get a blowjob to.
	- Neil Young:
		- saying, “I’ve been singing the same song for thirty years and I just sing it differently every time.”
		- setting the record straight on his “better to burn out than to fade away” lyric, that it was meant to encourage people to live and to create, not to self-destruct.
		- modeling a good attitude on criticism: “People are liking the record now, but I’ll have more peaks and valleys. I’ll put some other record out and people will say it’s a piece of shit. They’ll laugh. It’s inevitable. It just goes up and down, and the tops are not really that much better than the bottoms. So long as you’re moving.”
		- acknowledging “it’s not as easy to grow up now as it was in the sixties. The world is a much more dangerous place. There are a lot less dreams being realized,” making me feel even more sheepish about my interpretation, in a Talkhouse article, of his stance on my generation a few years ago.
	- DJ Jubilee teaching special education, watching his catchphrases get co-opted by Top 40 artists, still feeling fulfilled by teaching.
	- Walter Becker illustrating a question I’ve wondered a lot about: “We’re getting a lot of credit just for surviving and persisting and doing more or less the same kind of music, which, depending on who you talk to, is either considered a kind of integrity or a failure of imagination—or both.”
- Learning, from the *How I Built This* interview with the founder of RXBAR, that fruit processors are dedicated to specific colors of fruit, e.g. a “red fruit processor.”
- Wanting to learn more about CrossFit, guessing that *The New Yorker* would have a poetic deep-dive about it, being correct.
- Bouldering with Sammy at the new indoor climbing place.
- Starting the Ken Burns Vietnam series.
- The Peter Garland / Ahi Takahashi album, *Another Sunrise* (via Sammy).
- How, in the SiriusXM satellite radio channel guide, “Howard Stern” is its own category.
- Attempting a capture-and-release operation of a kitchen fly with Sammy, and aborting mission (target escaped).