---
title: Observations 8-16-18
datestamp: '20180816'
date: 2018-08-17 19:52:00 -05:00
---

- Flying to San Francisco.
	- Feeling naked without my backpack.
	- The airport employee who emerged from a rolling overhead door, driving one of those three-wheel, electric carts, eating a banana.
	- The announcement over the gate PA, “Looking for San Francisco flight passenger Morrissey.” (Not that Morrissey.)
	- The older passenger who accidentally started playing music (Indian pop) through his phone speakers instead of the headphones that he had requested from a flight attendant earlier.
	- Having drink-cart Diet Coke and feeling like a *debauchee* for it.
	- Reading Neil Strauss stories about Mötley Crüe and Ozzy Osbourne’s pee-licking and Jack Daniels-chugging at the same time as feeling like a *debauchee* for the Diet Coke.
	- At the end of the flight, trying to get out of my seat with my seatbelt still on.
- The SF MUNI logo (I had forgotten about it!). Almost illegible but worth it for the fun.
- The startup billboards.
	- LA has Emmys, SF has startups, Chicago has pizza and lizard-like injury lawyers.
- How, even though it’s also summer (and warmer) in Chicago, it somehow feels even more like summer in California.
- The sun-faded Shen-Yun 2017 poster in the donut shop.
	- The name, “Happy Donut.”
	- The owner, recognizing a man who stole a dollar from her tip jar two days ago, annoying him into giving it back. Him, limp-running away afterward.
	- The awning, “21 Varicties.”
- The man wearing a suit and a six-inch-wide, red button: “It’s My Birthday!”
- Entering a weed dispensary for the first time, for an acquaintance’s comedy show.
	- The headlining comedian, a kinda melancholy, young substitute teacher, calling me “half Michael Cera, half Ichabod Crane” and “heroin-chic.”
- The contractors installing new strands of crystals in the Swarovski store ceiling after hours.
- The psychedelic Dee Dee TV public access show re-runs.
	- The Pride footage of lots of naked wieners and even people touching them.
- The Wired story about how Cloudflare uses a 24/7 video feed of shifting lava lamps to generate random cryptographic keys for its cybersecurity tools (thanks Uncle Bruce).
- Jenn Pelly’s great piece in the Guardian about the final traveling Warped Tour.
	- Wondering whether bands on the lineup like being described by the head of the festival as part of a “nostalgia tour.”
	- The two clear proposals she presents: keep Warped alive but make it more inclusive (Pelly’s preference), or “burn it to the ground and start something new” (a fan’s punk AF preference).
- Paul Ford talking about web/app development as a reliable, old-school craft on his podcast, Track Changes.
- The Ray Kroc quote about paper cups in that Atlantic piece about disposable straws: “I don’t know what appealed to me so much about paper cups. Perhaps it was mostly because they were so innovative and upbeat.”
