---
title: Observations 8-22-18
date: 2018-08-24 15:53:00 -05:00
---

- Finding a dead bird in the middle of the street, moving it beneath a tree.
- The *New York Times* story about an English professor who translated and rearranged an epic novel so that it used every word in a dictionary exactly once, making it a “complete reordering of one entire English dictionary into a single work of art.”
- The *Tested* story about how Rolls-Royce worked with a Detroit automaker to help make Merlin plane engines during WWII.
	- Rolls-Royce had been making every engine by hand until that point.
	- The Detroit company, Packard, adapted to British metrics and tooling to fit their parts. They did such a good job that Rolls-Royce honored warranties on engines made by Packard decades later. It was cute.
- The *Reader* story about Jungle Green! Specifically, about how Andrew put up hundreds of handwritten flyers around town advertising his records, and the responses he got from those.
- Alex Chilton’s *Bach’s Bottom* again:
	- Chilton stopping a take to tell Richard Rosebrough, actually really sweetly, that his drumming was lacking spirit. *“The shoulders! That’s where it lies.”* (I’ve been there.)
	- Imagining that critics were probably pretty pissed at the ramshackle nature of the record, but appreciating that it’s basically a rehearsal recording with moments of great music interspersed. That’s kinda bold and it’s fun to listen to.
- The bathroom rug, red, blue, and sinewy, like dyed veins and arteries.
- The best friends with matching Adidas water shoes (wearing as everyday shoes).
- The black latex glove on the ground.
- The coconut Italian ice from Miko’s.
