---
title: Observations 11-1-18
date: 2018-11-28 15:02:00 -06:00
---

- Watching a beautiful house show by Zack Baltich and Jack Kilkelly-Schmidt.
	- Feeling inspired by Zack’s solo percussion compositions and the homemade instruments he played them on.
	- Jack’s suction cup stand thing for his classical acoustic guitar.
	- Drifting off to sleep—it was a long day; not a statement on Zack or Jack’s music!—and hearing musical chords as words in that weird, irrational, senses-misfiring-and-neural-connections-being-made twilight state.
- The research that suggests global air travel might actually reduce the chance of pandemic for some types of diseases (DOI: 10.1101/404871).
- Casting my calf in plaster in sculpture class.
	- My hockey player classmate, with whom I’d never really talked, kindly helping prepare the plaster for me.
	- Applying too little Vaseline beforehand and ripping out lots of leg hair when I removed the mold. You could see some in the final product later.
- Watching another classmate get his face cast in plaster by our professor. What my mold did to my leg hair his mold did to his beard hair.
	- The plaster-crusted blanket kept in the studio specifically for this purpose. Face-molds require horizontality (FRH—every sculptor knows it).
- The note on the public printer in the campus center that read: “Hi, I may have sensitive finance documents that could come out of the printer, but it decided to pause and not print them. If you find them, please just throw them away. Thanks.”