---
title: Observations 4-14-19
datestamp: '20190414'
date: 2019-05-13 16:52:00 -05:00
---

- The leaders of a Swiss internationalist activist group, Operation Libero, describing how they respond to rising far-right populism in their country, in the *Guardian*:
	- “‘[…] We set the terms of the debate by portraying the [far-right populist] SVP’s proposal as an attack against fundamental Swiss values. Against the constitution as a pillar of our liberal democracy; the rule of law; equal justice for all. We were the patriots here, because this was an attack on things that every Swiss citizen holds dear.’”
	- “[Operation Libero] enlists ‘online warriors’, more than 100 at any one time for major campaigns, to engage on social media platforms. These are not trolls, Kleiner insists. They use their own names, offer arguments rather than invective and are under orders to stay polite and never escalate.”
	- “‘You have to be accurate, honest, understandable. You have to be serious about what you’re doing, responsible – but at the same time keep it fun, light. That’s not always easy. It’s really hard sometimes, actually. And you have to be positive.’”
	- “‘The SVP say they’re defending ordinary Swiss people against the state and a global elite but they’re actually weakening the structures and institutions that secure those very individuals’ freedoms.’”
	- “Politics now, Kleiner believes, has moved far beyond the left-right divide, or even the progressive-conservative divide. ‘It’s increasingly, actually, about constructive versus destructive,’ she says. ‘That’s really where we are.’”
- Feeling kinda surprised that even super politically conscious, pro-local-business creative people still use Amazon affiliate links in their blogs and newsletters. Wondering how (or whether) someone could provide an alternative program.
