---
title: Observations 12-12-20
datestamp: "20201212"
date: 2020-12-14T01:54:05.241Z
---
- The “three-story” Christmas tree in the north suburbs of Chicago (three slices of Christmas tree: one in a first-floor window, another in the second, and the top on the roof).
- How hard it is to open Chanukah gelt without getting chocolate under your fingernails.
- A hallmark of a shyster: they say “Think about it!” when they mean “Don’t think about it!” *Trust what seems true; don’t dig to see what’s more probably true.*
	- Just one example, with COVID: it seems like common sense to think that if you can smell things through your mask, then it won’t stop a virus. But dig just a little further and you find that masks are about stopping droplets, which are [bigger than the particles that cause smells](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7447000/).
	- It’s worth remembering that “common sense” is necessarily based on observation or things we’ve learned from other people. It’s not in-born. So it makes sense that we’d have to tune it up every once in a while, amend it when new information comes into play.
	- It strikes me that the “crisis of facts” in America isn’t always caused by people willingly sticking their heads in the sand. Sometimes we really are *thinking*, we’re just thinking based on missing or inaccurate information. And that’s when more info or better info can help.
	- Those who continue to rely on so-called common sense, even when new or better info conflicts with it, can probably only be moved by shifting the whole Overton window — making the bandwagon so big they don’t have to think to get on it.