---
title: Observations 2021-01-09
datestamp: "20210109"
date: 2021-01-14T03:06:05.567Z
---
- The concrete coring service called Core-Vette Concrete Coring Service.
- Pouring water into my cupped hands for Basil to drink while Casey drove us down the highway.
- An essay, “[An Engineering Argument for Basic Income](https://scottsantens.com/engineering-argument-for-unconditional-universal-basic-income-ubi-fault-tolerance-graceful-failure-redundancy?utm_source=densediscovery){: .pol}” by Scott Santens:
	- “We wouldn’t create a life support system on a space station where in order to receive oxygen, one would need to work to obtain it. Life support is life support. Dead people can’t work. So make sure people get oxygen so they can stay alive. Living people will do much more work than dead people.”
	- If your main objection to universal basic income is that it will disincentivize people from working, you ought to reflect on whether the fear of death is an acceptable incentive to dangle in front of people in the first place.
		- (I would also say to those critics: Do you work because you fear poverty? If you have savings, you probably don’t. You probably work because it’s fulfilling, or because you want more than the bare minimum your savings would offer. So what makes you so different from people without savings, whom a UBI safety net would save from death?)
	- Too much of an engineering mindset can confine our vision to the internal concerns of engineering, ignoring the ideas and pleas of real people. But I think Scott’s essay is interesting and convincing.