---
title: Observations 2021-11-09
datestamp: "20211109"
date: 2021-11-15T06:42:09.362Z
---
- [Buck Meek](https://buckmeek.bandcamp.com/){: .music} and [Kidi Band](https://kidiband.bandcamp.com/){: .music} at Lincoln Hall. Nearly crying at Adam Brisbin’s tuned-in guitar-playing.
- The spectrum of believing the world is full of assholes out to get you or sweethearts out to help you.
	- That where you sit on that spectrum affects how you treat others.
	- And how, in that way, your belief is self-fulfilling.
	- That where you sit on that spectrum is influenced by stories. Other people say, “Watch out, you’ll get hurt someday.” Or, dubiously, “Everyone is secretly an asshole. Trust no one. Only help yourself.”
	- Some people portray their stories as fact or biological reality. When they’re really just anecdotes, or sometimes even dreams (nightmares).
		- (One of those stories is “[the tragedy of the commons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tragedy_of_the_commons).”)
	- I am frustrated and wearied by self-appointed realists who say *any* trust is weak and that *any* faith is sentimental.
	- I am no stranger to harm (though I’ve been lucky). I don’t expect that everyone is kind all of the time. Yet speaking about cooperation and pro-sociality makes those folks call me naive.
	- I don’t know what to do other than to continue vibrating up and down the expect-sweethearts end of the spectrum, anticipating kindness sometimes and hostility other times, but usually trying not to expect too much at all, trying to behave the way *I* want to behave, recognizing the world is ever-changing.