---
layout: post
title: no title
date: '2011-04-30T17:06:00-05:00'
tags:
- books
tumblr_url: http://spencertweedy.com/post/5081419184/i-am-nowhere-near-first-to-the-party-on-this-one
---
I am nowhere near first to the party on this one, but Push Pop Press’s new book by Al Gore is so very cool. Digital books are not a new idea, but what Push Pop brings to the table definitely is. Al Gore/Apple fan or not, ya can’t deny this is a step forward.
As awesome as it is, and for the insane amount of gushing it gets, the comments on this video are really, really mixed. When I saw the like/dislike bar on YouTube split about half way down the middle, I assumed that most of that was because the book’s author: Al Gore. YouTube is a conservative (and liberal) trolling haven, not to mention an all-purpose trolling haven. People are dicks.
But from what I read on two pages of comments (for the sake of my blood pressure, I read no further), most people hitting that thumbs down button were not rabid Al Gore-haters, but rabid Apple-haters, arguing that the fact Our Choice is only available on iPhone and iPad makes it “inaccessible.” And that Mike’s video was just an ad in disguise.
There are a lot of arguments to be had on this, but I think only one of them is important, and it’s the one that has to do with Mike’s vision for the industry he’s entering. Push Pop isn’t selling Apple products. The first book binders weren’t papyrus salesmen. It was the most appropriate medium of the time and, in terms of the skills needed to produce it versus the cost of an Apple product, equally, if not more inaccessible. The fact Push Pop chose Apple’s technology to share information with doesn’t make them pretentious anuses. It makes them realistic and practical for the time being.
Availability is a valid concern to have for something as biblically-sized as digital information, though. In many ways, this revolution is no different than when cars replaced horses, or when guns replaced swords, and right now, it’s still a pretty new thing. When you narrow it down to a niche like books on computers, this is a really new thing. But technology gets more and more accessible, as ironic as this sounds, naturally—it has to. When the first Betamax was invented or whatever, it was ridiculously expensive. (Pretend like I was alive when the Betamax was invented for a moment here.) When my grandfather bought his first calculator (i.e. computer), it cost over $1,000.
Push Pop is taking the Betamax and making a really, really sexy Canon camcorder. They want to help usher a new age—an age that’s already begun—into what it needs to be: the norm. Canon isn’t the only one making nice video cameras. A few things to consider:
Push Pop Press is going to release software that publishers can use to make their own books. It’s talked about only a tiny bit in this video but it’s pretty huge; they don’t want this to be a gig only they have. They want the norm!
People are allowed to make stuff with the stuff they want. iPads (er, iOS) aren’t just the “paper” we consumers use to read their books, it’s the “pen” they used to make the thing we consume. If they like developing with Apple’s stuff, let them be, wieners. They’re not the only ones that can make digital books (and, apparently, they want it to be that way, too).

When it comes down to it, I really think there’s an elephant in the room that’s bigger than whatever beef these commenters have with Apple (or Al Gore). We’re scared. Books are a precious thing. Everything physical is a precious thing. We’ve already seen several industries turned totally upside-down by technology; photography and music are the two I would point to (and maybe write about sometime). The digital era is changing how we make things and how we consume things. Usually, this is really “where we store things” and “with what we consume things.” It’s all there. It’s just 1’s and 0’s.
And that is the scary part. We can relate to real stuff because, surprise: we’re made out of the exact same stuff! That book is a book and I am a person and we are both made out of matter. The particles on the magnetic tape that you recorded the song with that I am listening to on a vinyl record are made out of matter and I am, too. That picture is a bunch of colorful dots made out of matter and so am I. For the second consecutive post in a row, I’m going to quote one of my favorite photographers, Justin Ouellette (from this):

Film has a rich and beautiful depth; it’s analog, it’s imperfect, it’s literally organic. You form a relationship with it. Digital has a long way to go to compete with that experience. In addition, the technology involved in film photography is simple and understandable. I don’t want to have to rely on a battery or a CCD that might as well be magic, I like my tools to be extensions of concepts I can relate to as a human. I also just really like the way film looks. Digital might be more tempting to me once the technology gets cheap enough that it’s possible to make some truly interesting digital cameras, but for now all I see is bayer filters and CCDs that haven’t changed much since the 1970s.

This doesn’t even need remixing. We don’t like Push Pop Press because they make books we can’t smell. That’s the difference between the horse-car, sword-gun revolutions and the digital revolution. You can still smell a car. You can still feel a gun and love it for its uniqueness and craft and maybe, if you have some weird affection for gunpowder or varnish, smell. Obviously, scent isn’t the only real game-changer, but it’s a nice nutshell to put this in.
We should stop being afraid. Yes, we may sacrifice a part of the experience we love. We may put the things we make and the information we share in danger of obsolescence. But I think the move forward—the things it will give us—are worth it.
Either way, books won’t die. Film didn’t die. Vinyl didn’t die. 1’s and 0’s are written with matter.
Funny coincidence: I just made a book! It’s real and you can buy it here.
