---
layout: post
title: Tug-of-war
date: '2011-08-28T18:07:00-05:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://spencertweedy.com/post/9521373746/tug-of-war
---
A few nights ago, as I lay in bed, thinking, because I forgot not to, a rare thing happened. One of the myriad branches of thoughts and half-baked anecdotes that often keep me awake transformed into a not-so-often mental delicacy of mine: a verbalizable nugget. First, a romantic preface.

There is a line that separates the two stages of human life, commonly referred to as child- and adulthood. It’s not a very well-defined (or “well-drawn”, for consistency’s sake) one. In fact, it’s pretty balls vague. The only reason we’re aware of it is because there are little moments now and then, every once in awhile, when something adolescence-related or another slaps us in the face and there’s a transient moment of clarity, or at least realization. It doesn’t really have a beginning and an end, because it’s never totally finished, and it’s sort of always been there. We kind of just wander over it, on it, through it, and end up different.
To afford “the line” a simile is to take a metaphor and make a simile out of it, because “the line” is already a metaphor. It is also to regress oneself to the Xanga era, because what I’m about to drop is a rawly, rawly nervous turd. But I’ll do it anyway.
iPhone note, August 27th, 1:36 AM:

Sometimes the line feels like that drawn in the sand during a game of involuntary tug-of-war. All too often I find myself falling back to the comforting knowledge that I am not yet responsible for my own being, pulling away. Then slowly, again, I can feel my grip loosen and the line inch even further than it did before. I don’t want to win this game of tug-of-war, but sometimes I can’t help but feel frightened and surprised by the ferocity of whatever force pulls from the other side. I’m not going to win this game of tug-of-war.
