---
layout: post
title: Grammys!
date: '2012-02-10T13:20:30-06:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://spencertweedy.com/post/17380851722/grammys
---
Headed to LA for the Grammys! This is the fifth year Wilco’s been nominated but it’s my brother Sammy’s and my first time coming along. They’re making us sit in the back away from all the important people, but it’s okay because our uncle, Danny, and cousin, Leah, are going with us, too. (They’re not important either so they can keep us company.) I’m happy just to be getting away from Chicago for awhile because something about being geographically, physically far from the place where you primarily experience your angst makes it all… far away. I’m also excited to see famous people.

We found out yesterday that Wilco’s category isn’t televised, which is a big let-down because my dad was ecstatic at the idea of giving a speech to millions of people (not). Normally when he speaks on stage he ends up telling a story about one of the strangely-many times he’s crapped himself in a hotel room. He’ll probably lose to Foo Fighters (or as we in the Tweedy household call them, Poo Fighters) again, anyway.

I saw this letter written by Nick Cave on one of my favorite blogs, Letters of Note, the other day and it really put me in the Grammys spirit. I’m an avid supporter of personifying intangible stuff and also of thinking about music in this wholesome, roots-y way. It was a pretty classy, benign yet striking, “Thank you! You shouldn’t have! No, you really shouldn’t have!” Maybe a little classier than some others…


  21 Oct 96
  
  To all those at MTV,
  
  I would like to start by thanking you all for the support you have given me over recent years and I am both grateful and flattered by the nominations that I have received for Best Male Artist. The air play given to both the Kylie Minogue and P. J. Harvey duets from my latest album Murder Ballads has not gone unnoticed and has been greatly appreciated. So again my sincere thanks.
  
  Having said that, I feel that it’s necessary for me to request that my nomination for best male artist be withdrawn and furthermore any awards or nominations for such awards that may arise in later years be presented to those who feel more comfortable with the competitive nature of these award ceremonies. I myself, do not. I have always been of the opinion that my music is unique and individual and exists beyond the realms inhabited by those who would reduce things to mere measuring. I am in competition with no-one.
  
  My relationship with my muse is a delicate one at the best of times and I feel that it is my duty to protect her from influences that may offend her fragile nature.
  
  She comes to me with the gift of song and in return I treat her with the respect I feel she deserves — in this case this means not subjecting her to the indignities of judgement and competition. My muse is not a horse and I am in no horse race and if indeed she was, still I would not harness her to this tumbrel — this bloody cart of severed heads and glittering prizes. My muse may spook! May bolt! May abandon me completely!
  
  So once again, to the people at MTV, I appreciate the zeal and energy that was put behind my last record, I truly do and say thank you and again I say thank you but no…no thank you.
  
  Yours sincerely,
  
  Nick Cave


I think we can all agree that there’s nothing wrong with honoring hard work, but to quantify it with something that isn’t explicitly subjective (like a blog post on Joey Pfeifer’s and my new blog, Unrequired Listening!) is just silly. I like to think that a lot of people feel like Nick Cave, but are just less noble, or at least more tolerant, or a little bit of both and just think it’s fun to go along with the award show ride.

We’re going along for the ride. Exclusive photos of Blue Ivy Carter later!
