---
date: 2025-11-02
slug: online-markets
title: Regulate online markets
link: https://www.nytimes.com/2025/10/25/opinion/big-tech-platforms-reform.html
highlighted: false
published: true
---
> To operate smoothly, economies have long depended on essential platforms, be they city markets, Main Streets or infrastructure like railroads and bridges. In the early 19th century, the Charles River Bridge, a private toll bridge in Boston, was so critical to local commerce that it was among the most profitable businesses in the United States. In a similar fashion, American farmers later became completely dependent on the railroads.
> 
> Historically, the government has imposed limits on how much money the platforms could take from the people and businesses that relied on them — and on how readily they could leverage their indispensability to their advantage. These limits were imposed not to constrain economic growth but to foster it: They protected the incentives for other economic actors to invest and build on the platforms. Such policies also ended up distributing wealth more equitably across social classes and geographic regions.
> 
> If left unchecked, a platform’s “take” impedes growth, as we are seeing today. Last year, Amazon charged private sellers, on average, between 50 and 60 percent of their sales in fees, according to the research firm Marketplace Pulse. You don’t need a degree in economics to see how that can discourage investment and innovation. Nearly every business in nearly every sector of the economy must now confront how much of its returns it will have to share with one platform or another. It’s effectively a system of private taxation.