---
title: Observations 11-29-18
date: 2018-12-10 13:43:00 -06:00
categories:
- observations
---

- Attending the Sterling Bay community meeting on their Lincoln Yards development, which threatens the Hideout and all of independent Chicago music with its Live Nation partnership.
	- The Sterling Bay executives' excessive reiteration that they live in the same neighborhood, take their kids to the same parks, and sit in "the same traffic" as all of us.
	- Katie and Tim (of the Hideout)'s admirable, focused speeches.
	- Their barely concealed disdain for us, which would come out in snickers or bad faith answers some of the time. There was something so disgusting about it. We (as independent venue advocates) have humor too (I swear!) and we can come to the table with maturity and respect for Sterling Bay’s interests. (Katie Tuten, co-owner of the Hideout, said outright, "I do believe—I hope—you have the best interests of the city [at heart].”) But they seemed completely disinterested in approaching the meeting that way. They can be frustrated or annoyed by our perspective; those meetings are full of angst and poor communication and I would be exasperated by them, too. But it seems like they view the meetings as a bone they throw, rather than as a totally reasonable, justified part of the process of *building a neighborhood from scratch*. It wasn't an earnest, "Let's figure out how to do this together and make it better" thing (in tone at least; they incorporate some community ideas like graduated/shorter buildings, but some say they planned to do that all along, anyway). They were flippant.
	- For our part, I think many of the protesters on our side are misinformed or under-informed (including me). But that doesn't undermine our position altogether.
	- Our position, or at least my telling of it, is that the development's tax package shouldn't be approved until after our new mayor is elected in February (our current mayor's brother is a Live Nation board member), and also that they should release details about their partnership with Live Nation. In a very dreamy dream world, they might also partner with a coalition of independent venue owners instead of Live Nation.
	- How building a better rapport could be as simple, in some cases, as avoiding uses of jargon. Few things alienate people more than trade-specific buzzwords and that the executives couldn't foresee that seems to show they have empathy-deficient tunnel-vision.
	- The Sterling Bay managing principal’s recognition that it's hard to build an "authentic neighborhood" all at once.
	- Their insistence that they would hand over the “public open green space” to the Chicago Park District and even set up a trust for its maintenance, but their glossing over the fact that they set the price too high for the Park District. They told us that we can't have the things we want (like publicly owned park land) because no one can pay for it, but no one—on Sterling Bay's side or ours—ever spoke about a lower price. Of course, they have a bottom line and it’d be unreasonable to demand that they just give their property away. But if they're as interested in turning over the park land as they say they are, they might be more willing to budge on the margins. It's hard to say for sure without seeing the terms of the proposal, which, characteristically, we haven't seen.
	- I will say it takes *vision* to look at a land site like the completely barren, industrial area it is now and imagine a whole new neighborhood rather than the more modest goal of building a single new building. I think there should be a (social) space for big, ambitious projects like that, but they should be heavily constrained by local government—more than just by zoning laws and a city council vote, i.e., government should prescribe a process whereby super-developers are required to consider other stakeholders and maybe where limits are put on the concentration of equity in the project.
	- The Live Nation partnership's being a part of a bigger picture where a few companies own most tours, festivals, and venues—and where booking agents, venue owners, and artists lose control of their livelihoods. It's scary but I'm hoping for a future (better antitrust laws? actual enforcement of antitrust laws?) where we figure it out.