---
title: Observations 8-16-18
date: 2018-08-17 19:52:00 -05:00
categories:
- observations
---

- Flying to San Francisco.
	- The feeling of nakedness traveling without my backpack.
	- The airport employee driving one of those little, three-wheel carts, emerging from a rolling overhead door, eating a banana.
	- The announcement over the PA at the airline gate, “Looking for San Francisco flight passenger Morrissey.” (Not that Morrissey.)
	- The older plane passenger who accidentally started playing music (Indian pop) through his phone speakers instead of his airline-provided headphones.
	- Having a Diet Coke on the plane and feeling like a fricking debauchee for it.
	- Trying to get out of my plane seat with my seatbelt still on.
- The SF MUNI logo!!! (I had forgotten about it.) Almost too abstract to be legible, but worth it for the eccentricity.
- The startup billboards on the way in from SFO. (LA has Emmy billboards, SF has startups, Chicago has… Giordano’s?)
- Feeling amazed and curious, still, about how axles and bearings in cars work. (Shouldn’t friction make them impossible?!)
- How, even though it’s also summer (and warmer) in Chicago, it somehow feels even more like summer here.
- The sun-faded Shen-Yun 2017 poster in the Happy Donut shop.
	- The owner recognizing a man who stole a dollar from her tip jar two days ago, and annoying him into giving it back. He limp-ran away afterward.
	- The awning: “21 Varicties.”
- The man wearing a suit and a six-inch-wide, red button: “It’s My Birthday!”
- Entering a weed dispensary for the first time, for an acquaintance’s comedy show.
	- The showcase, with no stage, in the middle of the “dab lounge.”
	- The comedian who called me “half Michael Cera, half [someone else],” and “heroin-chic.”
- The contractors installing new strands of crystals in the Swarovski store ceiling after hours.
- The Dee Dee TV public access show re-runs.
	- The Pride footage of lots of naked wieners and even people touching them.
- The Wired story about how Cloudflare uses a 24/7 video feed of shifting lava lamps to generate random cryptographic keys for its cybersecurity tools (thanks Uncle Bruce).
- Jenn Pelly’s great piece in the Guardian about the final traveling Warped Tour.
	- Wondering whether bands on the lineup like being described by the head of the festival as part of a “nostalgia tour.”
	- The two clear proposals she presents: keep Warped alive but make it more inclusive (Pelly’s preference), or “burn it to the ground and start something new” (a fan’s punk AF preference).
- Paul Ford talking about the web/app development business as a reliable, old-school craft on his podcast, Track Changes.
- The Ray Kroc quote about paper cups in that Atlantic piece about disposable straws: “I don’t know what appealed to me so much about paper cups. Perhaps it was mostly because they were so innovative and upbeat.”