---
title: Observations 5-18-19
date: 2019-05-21 03:44:00 -05:00
categories:
- observations
---

- Going on a nice morning walk with Mom and Sammy.
	- Getting home just in time to watch the rain from the porch.
- The amazing 1874 specimen book of chromatic wood type from Wm. H. Page & Co., viewable for free on Archive.org (via “Meanwhile” by Daniel Gray).
- Watching and loving *Y Tu Mamá También* with Sammy.
- How Facebook recently hired a co-writer of the Patriot Act to be its general counsel.
	- The rating of the bound version of the Patriot Act on Google: 35%.
	- The lone review of the Patriot Act on Google Books: “stupid ass law.”
- A tentatively heartening stat from a *Fast Company* story about plant-based meat: “Around 30% of American consumers now say that they’re reducing their meat consumption, and 32% consider themselves flexitarian.”
	- A venture capitalist: “’Historically, making the decision to bring on a plant-based burger in McDonald’s would have been a very risky decision to make. […] Why would you put your job at risk and your reputation at risk to take on a veggie burger? [Now] if you’re in that position of influence, and you don’t take that risk, you’ll actually miss out, and you’ll be the one who kind of came in behind competition.”
		- I like how he describes the change in terms of individuals’ concrete actions. I don’t like how it potentially supports anarcho-capitalists’ idea that there is a free market solution for any crisis, including excessive meat consumption.
- Getting home late enough to see (and be momentarily freaked out by) the newspaper delivery.