---
title: November Newsletter
date: 2019-11-02 19:06:25.001000000 -05:00
categories:
- newsletter
---

- The horses running through a makeshift farm parking lot at the memorial service for my friend’s mom. 10-25
* The just-beginning-to-turn leaves on the drive from New York City to Maine. 10-7
* The orthodox kids — payos, tzitzit, and everything — playing with garden tools and a hammer next to my relatives’ sukkah. 10-20
- The cashier at the corner store insisting I look exactly like Barry Manilow. 10-28

- Playing catch in the park with Andrew, Adam, and Hugh. 10-28
* Going to the batting cages with Casey (at the Bunny Hutch Novelty Golf, for Chicagoans — go keep them open!). 10-9
* Popping washed-up kelp pods on the beach in Santa Barbara. 10-4
* Installing a new car battery with Mom on Instagram Live. 10-16
* Walking with Mom and her Team Susan Miller Tweedy at the Light the Night Walk for Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. 10-19

- The sold-out Cosmic Country Showcase at the Hideout. 10-25
- Playing drums as Doug Clifford in Casey’s Creedence Clearwater Revival Halloween cover band. 10-29
- Liam’s beautiful duet with Andrew Sa at the Hungry Brain. 10-26
- Tim Daisy’s amazing drumming. 10-20

* Our bizarrely wintery, snowy Halloween in Chicago. 10-31
	* Hanging around a fire pit (which Mom masterfully lit) and handing out candy to trick-or-treaters with Mom, Casey, and Basil, who was wrapped in many blanket layers.
	* The big tree limb that fell into the street from the weight of snow, thankfully on no one and no cars.
- The type of knowledge that you can only find out in a Sim City-type setting: how many bugs you’ve ever unknowingly eaten, how many hours you’ve ever slept, the number of people who’ve stepped on a particular one-inch square, etcetera. Imagining movie montages that reveal that type of information. 10-30

* The bar patron talking about playing harmonica with the blues musicians in his hometown of Lansing, Michigan, but being excluded when he tries to sing with them (“so fucking cliquey, man”). So he moved to rural Illinois, “where the money is,” and he already feels like the blues guys in Chicago are friendlier. 10-24
* The surprisingly poignant disposable camera photos of a 1998 furry convention on Flickr. 10-21
- The full-grown coyote at the end of our block. 10-23